docs: list view (#769)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/components/list_view.md

## List View

> ListView displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. They offer greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes ListView an ideal component for use cases such as file managers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ListView displays a list of interactive items and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes ListView an ideal component for use cases such as file managers.
```

_column_types = time_table(
    "PT1S",
    start_time=datetime.datetime.now() - datetime.timedelta(seconds=initial_row_count),
).update(
    [
        "Id=new String(`key-`+i)",
        "Display=new String(`Display `+i)",
    ]
)

# `ui.list_view`` with `ui.list_action_group` actions
@ui.component
def ui_list_view_action_group():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2", "key-4", "key-5"])

    action_item_keys, set_action_item_idx = ui.use_state(["", ""])
    on_action = ui.use_callback(
        lambda action_key, item_key: set_action_item_idx([action_key, str(item_key)]),
        [],
    )

    lv = ui.list_view(
        _column_types,
        key_column="Id",
        label_column="Display",
        aria_label="List View",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        actions=ui.list_action_group(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
    )

    text_selection = ui.text("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, value)))
    text_action = ui.text("Action: " + " ".join(map(str, action_item_keys)))

    return lv, text_selection, text_action

my_list_view_action_group = ui_list_view_action_group()
```

> ListView can also accept a handler that is called when the selection is changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ListView can also accept a handler that is called when the selection is changed.
```

        [],
    )

    lv = ui.list_view(
        _column_types,
        key_column="Id",
        label_column="Display",
        aria_label="List View",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        actions=ui.list_action_menu(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
        on_selection_change=print("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, value))),
    )
    return lv

my_list_view_action_menu = ui_list_view_action_menu()
```

## Quiet State

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    quiet_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        is_quiet=True,
    )

    default_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Default",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
    )
    return default_list, quiet_list

lv = ui_list_view()
```

## Modifying Density

> To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the ListView, you can use the density prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the ListView, use the `density` prop.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    compact_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Compact",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="compact",
    )

    spacious_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Spacious",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="spacious",
    )
    return compact_list, spacious_list

lv = ui_list_view()
```

## Overflow Mode

> The default behaviour is to truncate content that overflows its row. Text can be wrapped instead by assing `wrap` to the `overflow_mode` prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default behavior is to truncate content that overflows its row. Text can be wrapped instead by adding `wrap` to the `overflow_mode` prop.
```

## List View

> ListView displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes ListView an ideal component for use cases such as file managers.

Reviewer 2: @dsmmcken The mention of this being ideal for a "file manager" doesn't seem like a common use case in DH (if at all)? Any other ideas of something more applicable to DH use cases? I see this mentioned in the ListView docs but not in the primary description. May be worth removing or changing.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import time_table, ui
import datetime

# Ticking table with initial row count of 200 that adds a row every second
initial_row_count = 200
_column_types = time_table(
    "PT1S",
    start_time=datetime.datetime.now() - datetime.timedelta(seconds=initial_row_count),
).update(
    [
        "Id=new String(`key-`+i)",
        "Display=new String(`Display `+i)",
    ]
)

# `ui.list_view`` with `ui.list_action_menu` actions
@ui.component
def ui_list_view_action_menu():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2", "key-4", "key-5"])

>     action_item_keys, set_action_item_idx = ui.use_state(["", ""])

Reviewer 2: Any reason, the value + setter use different naming semantics? (keys vs idx)

Author: No not a particular reason I just grabbed some examples from the [DESIGN.md](https://github.com/deephaven/deephaven-plugins/blob/18078627f5f66cafe1e7624df1c19ad8e99e69e9/plugins/ui/DESIGN.md#L4) doc. But agreed it doesn't make sense to change between the two. Will default to keys.

    on_action = ui.use_callback(
        lambda action_key, item_key: set_action_item_idx([action_key, str(item_key)]),
        [],
    )

    lv = ui.list_view(
        _column_types,
        key_column="Id",
        label_column="Display",
        aria_label="List View",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        actions=ui.list_action_menu(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
        on_selection_change=print("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, value))),
    )
    return lv

my_list_view_action_menu = ui_list_view_action_menu()
```

## Quiet State

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    quiet_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        is_quiet=True,
    )

    default_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Default",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
    )
    return default_list, quiet_list

> lv = ui_list_view()

Reviewer 2: I'd rename this the component / variable to `ui_list_view_quiet` and `my_list_view_quiet` respectively.

```

## Modifying Density
To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the ListView, use the `density` prop.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    compact_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Compact",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="compact",
    )

    spacious_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Spacious",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="spacious",
    )
    return compact_list, spacious_list

> lv = ui_list_view()

Reviewer 2: Same here, convention is typically `ui_some_component_some_label` and `my_some_component_some_label`

# List View

List view displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes list view an ideal component for turning table columns into interactive lists.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    return ui.list_view(
        ui.item("Option 1"),
        ui.item("Option 2"),
        ui.item("Option 3"),
        ui.item("Option 4"),
        default_selected_keys=["Option 2", "Option 3"],
    )

my_list_view = ui_list_view()
```

## Table Source Example

> List view items can also be generated from a table.

Author: `An item table source wraps a Table or PartitionedTable to provide additional information for
    creating complex items from a table.`
    
I couldn't really gather what a "complex item" is from the pydocs of `item_table_source`^. I know if you don't use table source it will just use the first column as the key and label but other than that I wasn't sure what the difference is.

        selected_keys=value,
        density="compact",
    )

    spacious_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Spacious",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="spacious",
    )
    return compact_list, spacious_list

my_list_view_density = ui_list_view_density()
```

## Overflow Mode
The default behavior is to truncate content that overflows its row. Text can be wrapped instead by adding `wrap` to the `overflow_mode` prop.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_overflow():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    truncated_list = ui.list_view(
        "Really long Text 1",
        "Really long Text 2",
        "Really long Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        overflow_mode="truncate",
        width="150px",
    )

    wrapped_list = ui.list_view(
        "Really long Text 1",
        "Really long Text 2",
        "Really long Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,

>         overflow_mode="wrap",

Reviewer 2: This is not expected. Variable item heights will cause bad behavior.

>         overflow_mode="wrap",

Author: Wasn't sure if this meant I should take the example out entirely but I instead added the note below explaining that it is not currently supported. Not sure if I should add the details of what the bad behavior is, if so is there an easy example I could showcase @bmingles?

```
Note: Currently not supported if a table source is used.
```

>         overflow_mode="wrap",

Reviewer 2: The example is fine for static source. The issue is only with table sources since the listview has to be able to calculate the total content height. We can do this if all items have the same height, since it's just multiplying item height * table size. Variable heights break this.

>         overflow_mode="wrap",

Author: Changed the note to say

```
Note: Currently not supported if a table source is used and items have varying heights.
```

        width="150px",
    )
    return truncated_list, wrapped_list

my_list_view_overflow = ui_list_view_overflow()
```

## API reference

```{eval-rst}
.. dhautofunction:: deephaven.ui.list_view

> ```

Author: When I pass in an actions prop to a static list view the options are not rendering. Not sure if the issue is with my implementation or actions are not supported for non-table sources

```
 lv = ui.list_view(
        "Option 1",
        "Option 2",
        "Option 3",
        actions = ui.list_action_group(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=print("hello"),
        )
    )
   ```

> ```

Author: Spoke to Brian about this and it is not supported when the children are coming from a non-table source. The actiongroup functionality is added by useRenderNormalizedIem which only runs in table sourced list view.

 It's not always data being passed in it could be JSX elements as children. Using the renderItem function to add actions would involve wrapping JSX elements + creating new element trees. It's possible but it was simpler to just let it pass so right now there is no opportunity to inject the new elements required for action groups

# List View

List view displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes list view an ideal component for turning table columns into interactive lists.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view():
    return ui.list_view(
        ui.item("Option 1"),
        ui.item("Option 2"),
        ui.item("Option 3"),
        ui.item("Option 4"),
        default_selected_keys=["Option 2", "Option 3"],
    )

my_list_view = ui_list_view()
```

## Table Source Example

List view items can also be generated from a table directly or using item_table_source.

### Passing Table Directly

> Ideal to quickly display a static dataset. The first column is used as the key and label by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is ideal for quickly displaying a static dataset. By default, the first column is used as the key and label.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui, new_table
from deephaven.column import string_col

_colors = new_table(
    [
        string_col("Colors", ["Red", "Blue", "Green"]),
    ]
)

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_table():
    return ui.list_view(_colors)

my_list_view_table = ui_list_view_table()
```

### Using item_table_source

> Used for creating complex items from a table (ie. defining which columns are the keys/labels of the data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`item_table_source` is used to create complex items from a table (ie., defining which columns are the keys/labels of the data).
```

        _table,
        key_column="Keys",
        label_column="Labels",
        actions=ui.list_action_group(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
    )
    lv = ui.list_view(source)

    text_action = ui.text("Action: " + " ".join(map(str, action_item_keys)))

    return lv, text_action

my_list_view_actions = ui_list_view_actions()
```

List view can also accept a handler that is called when the selection is changed.

```python
from deephaven import ui, new_table
from deephaven.column import string_col

_table = new_table(
    [
        string_col("Keys", ["key-0", "key-1", "key-2"]),
        string_col("Labels", ["Option 0", "Option 1", "Option 2"]),
    ]
)

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_selection():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2"])

    def handle_change(e):
        set_value(e)
        print("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, e)))

    source = ui.item_table_source(
        _table,
        key_column="Keys",
        label_column="Labels",
    )
    lv = ui.list_view(source, on_change=handle_change)

    return lv

my_list_view_selection = ui_list_view_selection()
```

## Disabled Options

> To disable certain rows in the ListView component, use the `disabled_keys` prop. By setting this prop with an array of keys, you can prevent interaction with those rows, providing greater control and customization options for the ListView behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable certain rows in the `ListView` component, use the `disabled_keys` prop. By setting this prop with an array of keys, you can prevent interaction with those rows, providing greater control and customization options for the `ListView` behavior.
```

    [
        string_col("Keys", ["key-0", "key-1", "key-2"]),
        string_col("Labels", ["Option 0", "Option 1", "Option 2"]),
    ]
)

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_disabled():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2"])

    source = ui.item_table_source(
        _table,
        key_column="Keys",
        label_column="Labels",
    )
    lv = ui.list_view(
        source, selected_keys=value, on_change=set_value, disabled_keys=["key-0"]
    )

    return lv

my_list_view_disabled = ui_list_view_disabled()
```

## Quiet State

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_quiet():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    quiet_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        is_quiet=True,
    )

    default_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Default",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
    )
    return quiet_list, default_list

my_list_view_quiet = ui_list_view_quiet()
```

## Modifying Density

> To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the ListView, use the `density` prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the list view, use the `density` prop.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_density():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    compact_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Compact",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="compact",
    )

    spacious_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Spacious",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="spacious",
    )
    return compact_list, spacious_list

my_list_view_density = ui_list_view_density()
```

## Overflow Mode
The default behavior is to truncate content that overflows its row. Text can be wrapped instead by adding `wrap` to the `overflow_mode` prop.

> Note: Currently not supported if a table source is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Currently not supported if a table source is used and items have varying heights.
```

Reviewer 2: This is not quite accurate. Item heights are hard coded assuming a non-wrapped line for table sources, so even if all were consistently wrapped, it would cause problems. aka. wrapping is not supported for table sources at all.

```python
from deephaven import ui, new_table
from deephaven.column import string_col

_table = new_table(
    [
        string_col("Keys", ["key-0", "key-1", "key-2"]),
        string_col("Labels", ["Option 0", "Option 1", "Option 2"]),
    ]
)

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_disabled():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2"])

    source = ui.item_table_source(
        _table,
        key_column="Keys",
        label_column="Labels",
    )
    lv = ui.list_view(
        source, selected_keys=value, on_change=set_value, disabled_keys=["key-0"]
    )

    return lv

my_list_view_disabled = ui_list_view_disabled()
```

## Quiet State

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_quiet():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    quiet_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Quiet",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        is_quiet=True,
    )

    default_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Default",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
    )

>     return default_list, quiet_list

Reviewer 2: I would define these in the same order they are rendered.

my_list_view_quiet = ui_list_view_quiet()
```

## Modifying Density

To adjust the vertical padding of each row in the ListView, use the `density` prop.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_list_view_density():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["Text 2"])

    compact_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Compact",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="compact",
    )

    spacious_list = ui.list_view(
        "Text 1",
        "Text 2",
        "Text 3",
        aria_label="List View - Spacious",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        density="spacious",
    )

>     return compact_list, spacious_list

Reviewer 2: Same here, any reason the rendering order is the reverse of the order they were defined with?

# List View

> ListView displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes ListView an ideal component for use cases such as file managers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
List view displays a list of interactive items, and allows a user to navigate, select, or perform an action. It offers greater flexibility in the contents it can render and can distinguish between row selection and actions performed on a row. This makes list view an ideal component for turning table columns into interactive lists.
```

> ## Example

Reviewer 3: The first example and events example are exactly the same?

I would really strip down the first example to be a more basic example. The first example is supposed to be the minimum viable amount of code to make it work.

).update(
    [
        "Id=new String(`key-`+i)",
        "Display=new String(`Display `+i)",
    ]
)

# `ui.list_view`` with `ui.list_action_group` actions
@ui.component
def ui_list_view_action_group():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2", "key-4", "key-5"])

    action_item_keys, set_action_item_keys = ui.use_state(["", ""])
    on_action = ui.use_callback(
        lambda action_key, item_key: set_action_item_keys([action_key, str(item_key)]),
        [],
    )

    lv = ui.list_view(
        _column_types,
        key_column="Id",
        label_column="Display",
        aria_label="List View",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        actions=ui.list_action_group(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
    )

    text_selection = ui.text("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, value)))
    text_action = ui.text("Action: " + " ".join(map(str, action_item_keys)))

    return lv, text_selection, text_action

my_list_view_action_group = ui_list_view_action_group()
```

ListView can also accept a handler that is called when the selection is changed.

> ```python

Reviewer 3: Get rid of as much complexity in this example as possible leaving only the thing you are trying to show, `on_selection_change`

        "Display=new String(`Display `+i)",
    ]
)

# `ui.list_view`` with `ui.list_action_menu` actions
@ui.component
def ui_list_view_action_menu():
    value, set_value = ui.use_state(["key-2", "key-4", "key-5"])

    action_item_keys, set_action_item_keys = ui.use_state(["", ""])
    on_action = ui.use_callback(
        lambda action_key, item_key: set_action_item_keys([action_key, str(item_key)]),
        [],
    )

    lv = ui.list_view(
        _column_types,
        key_column="Id",
        label_column="Display",
        aria_label="List View",
        on_change=set_value,
        selected_keys=value,
        actions=ui.list_action_menu(
            "Edit",
            "Delete",
            on_action=on_action,
        ),
        on_selection_change=print("Selection: " + ", ".join(map(str, value))),
    )
    return lv

my_list_view_action_menu = ui_list_view_action_menu()
```

## Disabled Options

To disable certain rows in the ListView component, use the `disabled_keys` prop. By setting this prop with an array of keys, you can prevent interaction with those rows, providing greater control and customization options for the ListView behavior.

> ```python

Reviewer 3: Same comment as before, strip this example down to minimum required to show what is unique about it.

## Overflow Mode
The default behavior is to truncate content that overflows its row. Text can be wrapped instead by adding `wrap` to the `overflow_mode` prop.

> Note: Currently not supported if a table source is used and items have varying heights.

Reviewer 2: Oh, I missed this. This is not quite accurate. Overflow wrap is not supported at all for table source. The variable heights is why, but it's not an additional qualifier.
